content/posts/books-to-read.md, before:

+++
title = 'Books to Read'
date = 2024-06-06T20:11:16-07:00
+++

- [The Eschatological Visions of The Blessed: End Times Prophecies of Elders & Saints of the Orthodox Church - 2nd Edition](https://eschatonvigil.org/product/the-eschatological-visions-of-the-blessed-second-edition/)
- [Have Mercy On Me A Sinner: The Hard Truths About Historical Christianity & Why It Matters](https://www.amazon.com/Have-Mercy-Sinner-Historical-Christianity/dp/B0FJMMMPB8)
- [The Ethics of Beauty](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/collections/books-media/products/the-ethics-of-beauty)
- ~On Acquisition of the Holy Spirit~
- ~Theosis: The True Purpose of Human Life~
- Wounded by Love
- ~**The Path to Salvation, A Concise Outline of Christian Ascesis**~
- ~**The Spiritual Life And How to Be Attuned to It**~
- [**The Lives of the Great Desert Fathers**](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/collections/books-media/products/the-lives-of-the-great-desert-fathers)
- [**The Sayings of the Desert Fathers**](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/products/the-sayings-of-the-desert-fathers)
- On True Christianity - Volume 1-6
- The Dialogues
- [The Life of Holy Father Gregory Palamas](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/products/the-life-of-holy-father-gregory-palamas)
- [The Blessed Surgeon: The Life of Saint Luke, Archbishop of Simferopol](https://store.ancientfaith.com/the-blessed-surgeon-the-life-of-saint-luke-archbishop-of-simferopol/)
- [Saint Justin Popovic, The New Philosopher: His Life and Service](https://store.ancientfaith.com/saint-justin-popovic-the-new-philosopher-his-life-and-service/)
- Hexaemeron
- On Social Justice - St. Basil the Great
- On Christian Ethics - St. Basil the Great
- [Journey to Reality: Sacramental Life in a Secular Age](https://store.ancientfaith.com/journey-to-reality-sacramental-life-in-a-secular-age/)
- [I Know a Man in Christ](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/products/i-know-a-man-in-christ)
- Mystagogy of the Holy Spirit by Saint Photius the Great
- Apodictic Treatises on the Procession of the Holy Spirit by Saint Gregory Palamas
- Christianity and Classical Culture by Jaroslav Pelikan
- [Healing the Soul: Saint Porphyrios as a Model for Our Lives](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/products/healing-the-soul-saint-porphyrios-as-a-model-for-our-lives)
- [Love in Christ or Meta-Patristic Agapology](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/products/love-in-christ-or-meta-patristic-agapology)

### West/East
- ~Rock & Sand~
- Aristotle East & West
- The Filioque
- [Keys Over the Christian World](https://annas-archive.org/md5/05e8f88b7597cbc32eed63d330351554)
- [The Rise and Fall of the Papacy and Fellowship With Christ's Suffering](https://www.amazon.com/Rise-Fall-Papacy-Orthodox-Perspective-ebook/dp/B0CNMLW481)
- [Two Paths: Orthodoxy & Catholicism: Rome's Claims of Papal Supremacy in the Light of Orthodox Christian Teaching](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08P5GSZV6)

### Transhumanism, Singularity, Technology
- [Return to Babylon: From Adam to Antichrist](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0FRY4XMG1)
- [Against the Machine: On the Unmaking of Humanity](https://www.amazon.com/Against-Machine-Unmaking-Paul-Kingsnorth/dp/0593850637)

### Cautious
- [Waiting and Dating: An Orthodox Christian Guide for Navigating Singleness and Godly Relationships](https://store.ancientfaith.com/waiting-and-dating-an-orthodox-christian-guide-for-navigating-singleness-and-godly-relationships/)
---
<!--
### Books to read in my 20s
- The Bible
- The Divine Comedy - Dante Alighieri (c.1321)
- The Count of Monte Cristo - Alexandre Dumas (1844)
- Lord of The Rings - J. R. R. Tolkien (1954)
- Crime & Punishment - Fyodor Dostoevsky (1866)
- Le Morte d'Arthur - Thomas Malory (1485)
- The Adventures of Tom Sawyer - Mark Twain (1876)
- Don Quixote - Miguel de Cervantes (1616)
- The Great Gatsby - F. Scott Fitzgerald (1925)
- Beowulf (c.8th century)
- The Odyssey - Homer (c.8th century)
- lliad - Homer (c.8th century)
- Metamorphoses - Ovid (8 AD)

### The Educated Barbarian
- Book of Five Rings - Miyamoto Musashi
- Hagakure - Yamamoto Tsunetomo (Jocho)
- The Meditations - Marcus Aurelius
- Enchiridion - Epictetus
- On a Happy Life - Seneca
- Beyond Good and Evil - Friedrich Nietzsche

### Wishlist
- Zero to One - Peter Thiel (Copped physical copy)
- On The Shortness of Life - Seneca
- ~The Almanack of Naval Ravikant - Eric Jorgenson~
- Ego is the Enemy - Ryan Holiday
- Several Short Sentences on Writing - Verlyn Klinkenborg
- On Writing Well - William Zinsser
- Fundraising - Ryan Breslow
- Wild Problems - Russ Roberts
- Think And Grow Rich - Napoleon Hill
- Feeling is the Secret - Neville Goddward
- You Can Negotiate Anything - Herb Cohen
- Thinking in Bets - Annie Duke
- The Managerial Revolution: What is Happening in the World - James Burnham


### Strategies for learning hard things and doing deep work
- [Deep Work - Cal Newport](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Work-Focused-Success-Distracted/dp/1455586692/)
- [Ultralearning - Scott H. Young](https://www.amazon.com/Ultralearning-Master-Outsmart-Competition-Accelerate-ebook/dp/B07K6MF8MD/)
- [Fluent Forever - Gabriel Wyner](https://www.amazon.com/Fluent-Forever-Learn-Language-Forget/dp/0385348118/)

### Anime/Manga
- Eyeshield 21
- Gurren Laugann
- Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood
- Attack on Titan
- Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple
- Yu Yu Hakusho
-->

Commit message:

added black christian history book

content/posts/books-to-read.md, after:

+++
title = 'Books to Read'
date = 2024-06-06T20:11:16-07:00
+++

- [Wade in the River: The Story of the African Christian Faith](https://www.amazon.com/Wade-River-Story-African-Christian/dp/0971636508)
- [The Eschatological Visions of The Blessed: End Times Prophecies of Elders & Saints of the Orthodox Church - 2nd Edition](https://eschatonvigil.org/product/the-eschatological-visions-of-the-blessed-second-edition/)
- [Have Mercy On Me A Sinner: The Hard Truths About Historical Christianity & Why It Matters](https://www.amazon.com/Have-Mercy-Sinner-Historical-Christianity/dp/B0FJMMMPB8)
- [The Ethics of Beauty](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/collections/books-media/products/the-ethics-of-beauty)
- ~On Acquisition of the Holy Spirit~
- ~Theosis: The True Purpose of Human Life~
- Wounded by Love
- ~**The Path to Salvation, A Concise Outline of Christian Ascesis**~
- ~**The Spiritual Life And How to Be Attuned to It**~
- [**The Lives of the Great Desert Fathers**](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/collections/books-media/products/the-lives-of-the-great-desert-fathers)
- [**The Sayings of the Desert Fathers**](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/products/the-sayings-of-the-desert-fathers)
- On True Christianity - Volume 1-6
- The Dialogues
- [The Life of Holy Father Gregory Palamas](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/products/the-life-of-holy-father-gregory-palamas)
- [The Blessed Surgeon: The Life of Saint Luke, Archbishop of Simferopol](https://store.ancientfaith.com/the-blessed-surgeon-the-life-of-saint-luke-archbishop-of-simferopol/)
- [Saint Justin Popovic, The New Philosopher: His Life and Service](https://store.ancientfaith.com/saint-justin-popovic-the-new-philosopher-his-life-and-service/)
- Hexaemeron
- On Social Justice - St. Basil the Great
- On Christian Ethics - St. Basil the Great
- [Journey to Reality: Sacramental Life in a Secular Age](https://store.ancientfaith.com/journey-to-reality-sacramental-life-in-a-secular-age/)
- [I Know a Man in Christ](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/products/i-know-a-man-in-christ)
- Mystagogy of the Holy Spirit by Saint Photius the Great
- Apodictic Treatises on the Procession of the Holy Spirit by Saint Gregory Palamas
- Christianity and Classical Culture by Jaroslav Pelikan
- [Healing the Soul: Saint Porphyrios as a Model for Our Lives](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/products/healing-the-soul-saint-porphyrios-as-a-model-for-our-lives)
- [Love in Christ or Meta-Patristic Agapology](https://churchsupplies.jordanville.org/products/love-in-christ-or-meta-patristic-agapology)

### West/East
- ~Rock & Sand~
- Aristotle East & West
- The Filioque
- [Keys Over the Christian World](https://annas-archive.org/md5/05e8f88b7597cbc32eed63d330351554)
- [The Rise and Fall of the Papacy and Fellowship With Christ's Suffering](https://www.amazon.com/Rise-Fall-Papacy-Orthodox-Perspective-ebook/dp/B0CNMLW481)
- [Two Paths: Orthodoxy & Catholicism: Rome's Claims of Papal Supremacy in the Light of Orthodox Christian Teaching](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08P5GSZV6)

### Transhumanism, Singularity, Technology
- [Return to Babylon: From Adam to Antichrist](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0FRY4XMG1)
- [Against the Machine: On the Unmaking of Humanity](https://www.amazon.com/Against-Machine-Unmaking-Paul-Kingsnorth/dp/0593850637)

### Cautious
- [Waiting and Dating: An Orthodox Christian Guide for Navigating Singleness and Godly Relationships](https://store.ancientfaith.com/waiting-and-dating-an-orthodox-christian-guide-for-navigating-singleness-and-godly-relationships/)
---
<!--
### Books to read in my 20s
- The Bible
- The Divine Comedy - Dante Alighieri (c.1321)
- The Count of Monte Cristo - Alexandre Dumas (1844)
- Lord of The Rings - J. R. R. Tolkien (1954)
- Crime & Punishment - Fyodor Dostoevsky (1866)
- Le Morte d'Arthur - Thomas Malory (1485)
- The Adventures of Tom Sawyer - Mark Twain (1876)
- Don Quixote - Miguel de Cervantes (1616)
- The Great Gatsby - F. Scott Fitzgerald (1925)
- Beowulf (c.8th century)
- The Odyssey - Homer (c.8th century)
- lliad - Homer (c.8th century)
- Metamorphoses - Ovid (8 AD)

### The Educated Barbarian
- Book of Five Rings - Miyamoto Musashi
- Hagakure - Yamamoto Tsunetomo (Jocho)
- The Meditations - Marcus Aurelius
- Enchiridion - Epictetus
- On a Happy Life - Seneca
- Beyond Good and Evil - Friedrich Nietzsche

### Wishlist
- Zero to One - Peter Thiel (Copped physical copy)
- On The Shortness of Life - Seneca
- ~The Almanack of Naval Ravikant - Eric Jorgenson~
- Ego is the Enemy - Ryan Holiday
- Several Short Sentences on Writing - Verlyn Klinkenborg
- On Writing Well - William Zinsser
- Fundraising - Ryan Breslow
- Wild Problems - Russ Roberts
- Think And Grow Rich - Napoleon Hill
- Feeling is the Secret - Neville Goddward
- You Can Negotiate Anything - Herb Cohen
- Thinking in Bets - Annie Duke
- The Managerial Revolution: What is Happening in the World - James Burnham


### Strategies for learning hard things and doing deep work
- [Deep Work - Cal Newport](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Work-Focused-Success-Distracted/dp/1455586692/)
- [Ultralearning - Scott H. Young](https://www.amazon.com/Ultralearning-Master-Outsmart-Competition-Accelerate-ebook/dp/B07K6MF8MD/)
- [Fluent Forever - Gabriel Wyner](https://www.amazon.com/Fluent-Forever-Learn-Language-Forget/dp/0385348118/)

### Anime/Manga
- Eyeshield 21
- Gurren Laugann
- Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood
- Attack on Titan
- Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple
- Yu Yu Hakusho
-->
